.TH AUTORECORD 1 "February 2026" "HiFiBerry AutoRec 0.1.4" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
autorecord \- automatic audio recording with pause detection
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B autorecord
[\fIOPTIONS\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B autorecord
is an intelligent audio recording tool that automatically detects pauses 
in audio streams and splits recordings into separate files. It monitors 
PipeWire audio sources and starts recording when audio is detected, 
automatically stopping and creating new files during pauses.

Designed primarily for vinyl recording workflows, autorecord can capture 
entire vinyl sides while intelligently splitting tracks at pause points.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-s ", " \-\-source " " \fISOURCE\fR
Specify the audio source to record from. Can be a PipeWire source name 
or numeric ID. If not specified, an interactive selection menu is shown.

.TP
.BR \-o ", " \-\-output " " \fIDIRECTORY\fR
Set the output directory for recorded files (default: current directory).

.TP
.BR \-p ", " \-\-prefix " " \fIPREFIX\fR
Set filename prefix for recordings (default: "recording").

.TP
.BR \-f ", " \-\-format " " \fIFORMAT\fR
Audio format: s16 (16-bit) or s32 (32-bit, default).

.TP
.BR \-r ", " \-\-rate " " \fIRATE\fR
Sample rate in Hz (default: 96000). Common values: 44100, 48000, 96000.

.TP
.BR \-\-min\-pause " " \fISECONDS\fR
Minimum pause duration to split recordings (default: 2.0 seconds).

.TP
.BR \-\-threshold " " \fIDB\fR
Pause detection threshold in dB below music level (default: 12.0).

.TP
.BR \-\-pre\-buffer " " \fISECONDS\fR
Seconds of audio to buffer before pause detection starts (default: 5.0).

.TP
.BR \-\-vu
Show VU meter during recording.

.TP
.BR \-\-no\-split
Disable automatic file splitting on pauses.

.TP
.BR \-v ", " \-\-verbose
Enable verbose output with detailed detection information.

.TP
.BR \-h ", " \-\-help
Display help message and exit.

.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
Record from default source with automatic splitting:
.B autorecord

.TP
Record vinyl with custom pause detection:
.B autorecord \-\-min\-pause 3.0 \-\-threshold 15.0 \-\-prefix vinyl_album

.TP
Record at 192kHz with VU meter:
.B autorecord \-\-rate 192000 \-\-vu

.TP
Record specific source without splitting:
.B autorecord \-\-source "AT-LP5X Analog Stereo" \-\-no\-split

.SH FILES
Output files are named: \fIPREFIX\fR_\fITIMESTAMP\fR_\fINUMBER\fR.wav

Examples:
.br
recording_20260206_143022_001.wav
.br
vinyl_album_20260206_143022_002.wav

.SH PAUSE DETECTION
The adaptive pause detector analyzes audio in real-time:
.br
\- Tracks noise floor and music level dynamically
.br
\- Adapts to varying audio levels throughout recording
.br
\- Requires sustained low energy to trigger pause
.br
\- Buffers audio to avoid cutting off track starts

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR cue_creator (1)

.SH AUTHOR
Written for HiFiBerry OS.

.SH BUGS
Report bugs to: https://github.com/hifiberry/hifiberry-os
