.TH PAUSE_ANALYZER 1 "February 2026" "HiFiBerry AutoRec 0.1.4" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
pause_analyzer \- analyze audio files for pause detection validation
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B pause_analyzer
[\fIOPTIONS\fR] \fIAUDIO_FILE\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B pause_analyzer
analyzes WAV audio files to test and validate pause detection algorithms. 
It provides detailed output about detected pauses, noise floor, music levels, 
and RMS statistics.

This tool is useful for:
.br
\- Testing pause detection parameters
.br
\- Validating recording quality
.br
\- Troubleshooting autorecord settings
.br
\- Analyzing vinyl recordings for optimal split points

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-\-min\-pause " " \fISECONDS\fR
Minimum pause duration to detect (default: 2.0 seconds).

.TP
.BR \-\-threshold " " \fIDB\fR
Pause detection threshold in dB below music level (default: 12.0).

.TP
.BR \-\-strategy " " \fISTRATEGY\fR
Detection strategy to use. Options:
.br
  \fBdepth\fR    - Simple depth-based (default)
.br
  \fBpeak\fR     - Peak-aware detection
.br
  \fBadaptive\fR - Adaptive threshold
.br
  \fBall\fR      - Compare all strategies

.TP
.BR \-\-chunk\-size " " \fISECONDS\fR
RMS analysis chunk size in seconds (default: 0.1).

.TP
.BR \-\-smooth\-window " " \fICHUNKS\fR
Smoothing window size in chunks (default: 10).

.TP
.BR \-\-dump
Generate CSV dump of RMS values for external analysis.

.TP
.BR \-\-plot
Generate ASCII plot of audio levels (requires gnuplot).

.TP
.BR \-v ", " \-\-verbose
Enable verbose output with detailed detection information.

.TP
.BR \-h ", " \-\-help
Display help message and exit.

.SH OUTPUT
The analyzer displays:
.br
\- File information (format, duration, sample rate)
.br
\- Audio level statistics (noise floor, music level, dynamic range)
.br
\- Detected pause positions and durations
.br
\- Recommended pause detection parameters
.br
\- Quality assessment

.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
Analyze recording with default settings:
.B pause_analyzer recording.wav

.TP
Test different threshold:
.B pause_analyzer \-\-threshold 15.0 vinyl_side.wav

.TP
Compare all detection strategies:
.B pause_analyzer \-\-strategy all recording.wav

.TP
Generate detailed analysis with plot:
.B pause_analyzer \-\-verbose \-\-dump \-\-plot recording.wav

.TP
Analyze with tighter pause detection:
.B pause_analyzer \-\-min\-pause 1.5 \-\-threshold 10.0 recording.wav

.SH DETECTION STRATEGIES
.TP
.B depth
Simple depth-based detection. Measures how far below music level 
the audio drops. Fast and reliable for clean recordings.

.TP
.B peak
Peak-aware detection. Considers peak levels in surrounding context 
to avoid false positives during dynamic passages.

.TP
.B adaptive
Adaptive threshold detection. Dynamically adjusts threshold based 
on local audio characteristics. Best for varying level recordings.

.SH FILES
.TP
.I *.csv
RMS dump files (with \-\-dump option)
.TP
.I *.png
Plot files (with \-\-plot option)

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR autorecord (1),
.BR vu_meter (1),
.BR boundary_finder (1)

.SH AUTHOR
Written for HiFiBerry OS.

.SH BUGS
Report bugs to: https://github.com/hifiberry/hifiberry-os
