.TH VU_METER 1 "February 2026" "HiFiBerry AutoRec 0.1.4" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
vu_meter \- real-time audio level monitoring
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B vu_meter
[\fIOPTIONS\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B vu_meter
is a terminal-based VU (Volume Unit) meter that displays real-time audio 
levels from PipeWire sources. It provides visual feedback of audio levels 
with configurable update rates and display modes.

Useful for monitoring recording levels, checking audio sources, and 
verifying proper gain staging before recording.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-s ", " \-\-source " " \fISOURCE\fR
Specify the audio source to monitor. Can be a PipeWire source name 
or numeric ID. If not specified, an interactive selection menu is shown.

.TP
.BR \-f ", " \-\-format " " \fIFORMAT\fR
Audio format: s16 (16-bit) or s32 (32-bit, default).

.TP
.BR \-r ", " \-\-rate " " \fIRATE\fR
Sample rate in Hz (default: 48000). Higher rates provide more responsive 
metering but use more CPU.

.TP
.BR \-\-update\-rate " " \fIHZ\fR
Display update rate in Hz (default: 10). Higher values provide smoother 
updates but use more CPU.

.TP
.BR \-\-peak\-hold " " \fISECONDS\fR
Duration to hold peak indicators in seconds (default: 1.0).

.TP
.BR \-\-mono
Display mono (summed) levels instead of separate channels.

.TP
.BR \-\-compact
Use compact display mode (single line per channel).

.TP
.BR \-v ", " \-\-verbose
Enable verbose output with detailed level information.

.TP
.BR \-h ", " \-\-help
Display help message and exit.

.SH DISPLAY
The VU meter shows:
.br
\- Current RMS level in dB
.br
\- Peak level indicators
.br
\- Visual bar graph representation
.br
\- Channel labels (L/R for stereo)

Level colors (if terminal supports):
.br
\- Green: Normal levels (-60 to -20 dB)
.br
\- Yellow: Approaching peak (-20 to -6 dB)
.br
\- Red: Near clipping (-6 to 0 dB)

.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
Monitor default source:
.B vu_meter

.TP
Monitor specific source with high update rate:
.B vu_meter \-\-source "AT-LP5X Analog Stereo" \-\-update\-rate 30

.TP
Compact mono display:
.B vu_meter \-\-mono \-\-compact

.TP
High-resolution monitoring:
.B vu_meter \-\-rate 96000 \-\-format s32

.SH KEYBOARD CONTROLS
.TP
.B q, ESC
Quit the program
.TP
.B r
Reset peak indicators
.TP
.B +/-
Increase/decrease update rate

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR autorecord (1),
.BR pause_analyzer (1)

.SH AUTHOR
Written for HiFiBerry OS.

.SH BUGS
Report bugs to: https://github.com/hifiberry/hifiberry-os
